
On behalf of the members of the American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA), the national organization representing the vast majority of the estimated 15,000 podiatrists in the country, we welcome the opportunity to submit input on the proposals in the Episode-Based Cost Measure Development for the Quality Payment Program.

Acute Inpatient Medical Condition Episode Groups

We appreciate the broad nature of several of the Acute Inpatient Medical Condition Episode Groups such as  Cellulitis, Diabetes, Osteomyelitis, and Peripheral Vascular Disease and would like to clarify that there will be a place for podiatric physicians and surgeons to participate within those Episode Groups. For example, podiatric physicians and surgeons frequently provide care for acute inpatients with these conditions. Diabetic patients with a foot ulcer may be admitted to the hospital with any of the conditions listed above and may require intervention provided by a podiatric physician and surgeon. With future processes in Episode-Based Cost Measure Development, are there opportunities within the already selected Episode



Groups to narrow the scope to provide specific instances where podiatric physicians and surgeons can participate (e.g. cellulitis of the foot, diabetic foot infection, osteomyelitis of the foot, ulcer of the foot secondary to peripheral vascular disease)? With this, we would also like to clarify as to whether diabetic limb salvage fits or will fit into one of the already provided Acute Inpatient Medical Condition Episode Groups. Podiatric physicians and surgeons care for diabetic patients when complications associated with the foot and ankle arise. Diabetic foot complications, like foot ulcerations, are costly in and of themselves, but often lead to infection, hospitalization and amputation, which are also very costly to our system and result in poor quality of life for our patients. We would like to start the conversation regarding the overall cost of diabetic foot complications, as described above, as we believe it could be a significant share of Medicares expenditures. Diabetic foot complications also likely offer opportunity for improvement in care, the establishment of multidisciplinary care teams and outcome measures regarding quality of life and healing (ulcer or amputation site).

We strongly support the idea of creating an Acute Outpatient Medical Condition Episode Group. An example would be Cellulitis to mimic the Inpatient Episode Group. Podiatric physicians and surgeons see cellulitis frequently and if caught early enough can treat this acute condition as an outpatient and avoid a more costly hospitalization or a worse patient outcome such as amputation. The cost savings associated with outpatient treatment of an acute condition should be considered in this program. If the condition is not treated as an outpatient, the patient may end up with a hospitalization and more costly and lengthy treatment. As above, we would like to see information on Medicare expenditures to see where there might be opportunity for podiatric physicians and surgeons to be involved in the program.

Chronic Condition Episode Groups

Regarding the Chronic Condition Episode Group and thoughts on assigning treatment to conditions and adjustment, we agree this will be challenging and are supportive of the discussion of adjustment. The single episode group for outpatient chronic care that could be adjusted for comorbid conditions and demographics sounds the most promising at this time. Trying to separate out by such specifics (like the example provided in the materials  diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease) limits the number of people in each category, which could lead to issues in the future of not having enough people in any one category to compare.

Like the example provided that addresses cancer staging and the differences in cost, diabetic foot ulcerations can also be staged, with higher stage ulcers being more costly due to their need for advanced modalities (frequent debridements, synthetic grafts, advanced imaging, IV antibiotics, incision and drainage, amputation, hyperbaric oxygen therapy, and peripheral vascular intervention). Staging ulcerations can aid in predicting healing and could potentially aid in predicting cost. A staging system such as The Society for Vascular Surgerys Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) classification predicts wound healing and could help delineate cost based on stage of ulceration, with future cost data.. Adding an additional code would be possible, although burdensome, and providers will need to be appropriately educated and encouraged to participate.

Procedural Episode Groups

Regarding the Procedural Episode Groups, we would like CMS to consider adding procedural codes associated with caring for diabetic foot infections, such as incision and drainage, surgical debridements and amputations (diabetic limb salvage).



In addition to expenditure assignment, attribution, risk adjustment and consideration of quality, cost measures will need to be closely and appropriately associated with quality measures. We must ensure the quality or outcomes measures associated with the cost measures are actually measuring what they are intended to measure. Outcome and quality measures will need to be developed and refined carefully to ensure that care is not being withheld as a means of cutting costs. Regarding attribution, we ask that CMS consider a scenario where the provider triggering the code to begin a cost episode may not be the provider making decisions that could drastically increase the cost of the episode. For example, a podiatric physician and surgeon may be involved in a patients care and use the procedural trigger code that starts the cost episode. In the acute inpatient setting, a hospitalist may take over all but post-operative care of that patient and be driving the cost of that episode. We ask for clarification on such a scenario. We feel as though each episode should be evaluated for attribution rather than having any fixed percentages of the overall episodes being attributed to a particular specialty.

We agree that aligning cost measures with quality measures could have the unintended consequence of stinting care and wish to be part of future conversations and quality measure development.

Risk Adjustment

We support the conversation regarding risk adjustment for comorbidities and demographic information but do not have any comment on the CMS-HCC Risk Adjustment Model or alternative models. Depending on location and patient demographics, podiatric physicians and surgeons could be disadvantaged regarding their cost measure reporting for the MIPS program. Incorporating information regarding socio-economic status, level of education, etc. in addition to medical complexity will be important regarding comparison of outcomes.

Sub-Grouping

For many of the procedural codes relevant to podiatric physicians and surgeons, the codes themselves provide fairly adequate sub -grouping. Similar to the example provided (spine surgery with multiple levels), we would like to see sub-grouping for instances where multiple foot bones might be fractured or multiple toes may have a procedure performed on them as this will increase cost associated with operating room time and equipment/implants. Another example would be for patients with cellulitis; a sub-grouping based on presence of ulceration or lack thereof would be helpful as well as sub-group based on presence or absence of diabetes. The presence of an ulcer and diabetes can change the length of treatment and outcome drastically. We do support the use of sub-grouping to ensure the patients being compared are as alike as possible.

Provider engagement and education will be imperative for successful participation and understanding of the Cost Measures. We thank you for the opportunity to submit comments regarding Episode-Based Cost Measures and look forward to future participation in the discussion.

