
Cook Medical (Cook) appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Episode-Based Cost Measure Development for the Quality Payment Program Report, 12-23-2016 posted on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' (CMS) MACRA feedback page.

The report outlines some specific questions on which input is requested. Cook comments relate specifically to the questions regarding Procedural Episode Groups and the development of cost measures for those groups.

 We understand the general reasoning for Episode Groups but would appreciate a further explanation on why and how the Episode Groups specifically posted in this document were identified and selected. We think this would be helpful for all stakeholders in the future work further defining these groups.

 We recognize that some of the suggested Episode Groups are broad in scope while others are not. Some of the proposed groups seem very broad in scope, thinking about the complexity of the patient episodes in those groups both when it comes to the condition of the patients, the difference in procedures being performed and associated costs. We appreciate the continued effort by the clinical committee enabling a meaningful comparison within the Episode Groups potentially by developing sub-groups, by risk adjustments or redefine the scope of the groups. 

We believe that the determination of the episode window, or length of the episode, will be crucial in order to avoid unintended consequences using cost measures. Again we would like to stress the importance of clinical input so treatments that provide the best long term outcome both clinically and economically will not be disadvantaged by treatments that are less expensive initially but in the long run are more expensive and have worse clinical outcomes.

In addition to our overarching comments above, we would like to draw attention to two specific Episode Groups under consideration which reflect our concerns noted above: (1) Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) Repair; and (2) Lower Extremity Peripheral Artery Disease (PAD) Treatment. Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm repair has evolved considerably over the last two decades. Historically, open surgical repair had been the gold standard for treating these patients. However, over the last 15 or so years, with the advent of endovascular stent grafts, the standard of care has changed significantly, with minimally invasive stent-grafting procedures now being


used in approximately 80% of AAA repairs in the U.S. However, what may not be well-recognized at the moment and within the analysis of Episode Groups to-date is that the endovascular stent-grafting options for treating AAA are also evolving significantly with the development of "fenestrated" or "branched" stent grafts to treat more complicated aortic aneurysms. These types of procedures, currently described by "trigger codes" 34841-34848 (Note: 0078T-008T are no longer active CPT codes), involve a group of patients with distinctly different anatomies than those able to be treated with "standard" endovascular stent-grafts, which may very well result in additional imaging, secondary interventions, etc. which could alter their cost structure compared to more standard AAA repairs. As such, we would suggest further consideration should be given as to whether these particular procedures should be included within this Episode Group.

Consideration of Lower Extremity PAD Treatments as an Episode Group may very well offer some unintended consequences which should be closely considered. PAD patients, by their nature, are quite heterogeneous as can be the approaches to treatment of this disease. Like AAA repair treatment, the treatment of lower extremity PAD has evolved significantly over that last two decades. Open surgical bypass had been the traditional gold standard, but is being steadily replaced by minimally invasive treatments. However, the minimally invasive options themselves are very heterogeneous with physicians able to treat these patients with angioplasty, atherectomy, stenting, or some combination of the three. The treatment option chosen for any given patient will be based on a number of factors, including that patients overall health status, the character of the lesion(s) being treated (location, length, degree of narrowing, degree of calcification, etc.), and whether or not this is an initial intervention or a reintervention of some sort. Balloon angioplasty is the simplest and least expensive (when looking at episodic costs) of the treatment options, and it may very well be successful in opening up a lesion at the initial treatment. However, it is well-recognized that angioplasty's long-term success is sub-optimal for many lesions in the lower extremity. Short, discrete lesions may be well-treated with angioplasty, but longer lesions are likely to re-narrow (" restenose") with many patients requiring a reintervention within 12 months. On the other hand, initial treatment of these lower extremity lesions with a stent, for example, will result in a more expensive initial procedure, but with a significantly lower likelihood of patients required re-intervention in the future. We feel it is important to draw attention to this issue, since establishing an Episode Group in this way for Lower Extremity Treatment would encourage physicians to: (a) provide a less expensive initial treatment (angioplasty) for patients, that would ultimately result in higher overall spending for CMS since a significant portion of these patients would require reintervention in the future, outside of the Episode Group "window"; and (b) result in a lower quality of care for patients, since with angioplasty they're more likely to have a recurrence of their symptoms (claudication, rest pain, etc.) and to have to undergo additional procedures.

