
The American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA) is the national professional organization representing the interests of more than 213,000 occupational therapists, occupational therapy assistants, and students of occupational therapy. The science -driven evidence-based practice of occupational therapy enables people of all ages to live life to its fullest by promoting health and minimizing the functional effects of illness, injury, and disability. Occupational therapy services are reimbursed under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (MPFS) and are affected by Medicare Part B payment policies, including the policies and related changes anticipated under the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA). We appreciate the opportunity to provide input to CMS on the draft list of care episode and patient condition groups and codes.

I. Episode Group Selection and Definition

AOTA supports the inclusion of a number of the episodes identified in Appendix A as they represent some of the most costly conditions and patients would benefit from better quality and coordinated care delivery. As part of the interprofessional rehabilitation team, occupational therapy practitioners play a significant role in the care for patients recovering from orthopedic conditions such as knee and hip replacements, hip & pelvis fractures and dislocations, hand/joint repair, and various spinal surgeries. Additionally, under Medicare, occupational therapy services are provided throughout a number of the episodes listed for comment, including but not limited to: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary edema and respiratory failure, intercranial hemorrhage, cerebral infarction, disease, acute ischemic stroke, cardiac events, diabetes and mental health conditions such as major depressive disorder.

Although occupational therapists and other therapy professionals are not currently classified as eligible professionals for MIPS reporting purposes in CY 2017, it is important to note that occupational therapy CPT codes are billed for and reimbursed, for services provided during the aforementioned condition-based episodes. Therefore, going forward in this process, AOTA urges CMS to collaborate closely with therapy professional associations and specialty groups, including AOTA, APTA and ASHA, in order to gain accurate feedback with regard to these procedure codes and furthermore to avoid problematic and inappropriate groupings of conditions and codes. Based on AOTAs August 2016 review of the condition episode group diagnoses and CPT code listings during the open comment period, we identified several code errors and



omissions that proved to be illogical and inconsistent with quality patient care for occupational therapy services. CMS must not leave out key medically necessary procedure codes that a rehabilitation professional, such as an occupational therapist, would use with a specific patient population during the course of one of the clinical episodes named in Appendix A. AOTA will be nominating several occupational therapy experts as part of the CMS Call for Clinical Subcommittee Nominations for the MACRA Episode-Based Cost Measures, and encourages CMS to utilize our experts to provide detailed guidance to the CMS panel regarding the most appropriate diagnoses and CPT codes to be included within relevant episodes.

II. Acute Inpatient Medical Condition Episode Groups

AOTA has reservations with the notion that expenditures that are assigned to an acute episode group only intend to include a few conditions that are associated with that diagnosis. At the same time, procedure episodes are a troubling concept as it may be challenging to identify all the resulting services within the episode, within a 90-day window for example, that must be linked to a procedure. AOTA recommends that CMS, with the guidance of expert therapy and other professionals, expand the list of acute episode group types that practitioners typically treat in the acute care setting.

III. Chronic Condition Episode Groups

AOTA recommends that if CMS decides to categorize chronic conditions into episode groups that it does so by representing several conditions that typically occur concurrently. CMS should look to its data and experts regarding common comorbidities and share this data with its technical expert panel for discussion and decision- making regarding how best to define chronic condition episodes. In addition, CMS may tap into patient and professional society registries for new sources of data and health care information. As noted, certain chronic conditions like cancer are progressive and staged. The costs and resources needed at different stages of disease vary widely and must be accounted for through this process.

IV. Cost Measure Development

AOTA believes that the cost measures should include risk adjustment that could account for comorbidities, severity of condition, cognitive impairment, and staging of condition. The patient attribution aspect will also be very important here as CMS determines how to attribute various services within the episode to health care practitioners. AOTA urges CMS to work with the relevant professional society to assure alignment while attributing the services provided within an episode.

Another critical aspect of developing cost measures involves how the measure specifications recognize the ICD-10 and CPT codes for the various professionals involved. AOTA believes that a wider range of ICD-10 codes may be necessary to trigger the episode. Many rehabilitation professionals choose to indicate a treating diagnosis on their claim form rather than (or in addition to) a medical diagnosis that the therapist receives from the physician.

Therapists often provide a diagnostic code to indicate the performance deficit for which the client is receiving therapy. While the medical and treating diagnoses may be the same at times, in other instances, they may differ in order to provide a better to illustrate why the patient is receiving the therapy services. For example, a client with a medical diagnosis of multiple


sclerosis (MS) may be receiving treatment for decreased muscle strength, and incoordination. In this case, it would be important to provide a more specific ICD-10 treatment diagnosis code in addition to the medical diagnosis of MS. AOTA advises occupational therapists to select an ICD-10 code that most closely reflects the condition for which they are providing intervention. If CMS uses administrative claims to gather the coding data associated with cost and episodes, AOTA requests that CMS consider expanding the list of trigger ICD-10 codes.

V. Pilot Testing

AOTA believes that in order to gauge if the episode groups CMS develops actually fulfill the intended purpose of accurately reflecting the correct episode of care for purposes of identifying Medicare costs, CMS must institute a pilot testing period of at least one year in order to collect data and monitor the accuracy of this process before finalizing any episode groups in MIPS. This start date should take into consideration that rehabilitation professionals such as OTs have not been included in the initial roll -out of MIPS, and thus in order to allow current ineligible professionals so be successful, CMS should make the proposed year begin at a minimum of one year after these practitioners are deemed EPs by statute. This pilot phase should be conducted in conjunction with a similar patient relationship categories pilot. The pilot phase should not involve penalties for claims that mistakenly label the episode incorrectly, but rather should provide the provider or facility with an explanation and pre-prepared educational training to remediate issues as they arise. Further, AOTA would recommend thorough periodic education on this topic, beginning with a formal announcement, and materials available in multiple mediums to include website fact sheets, webinars, in-person Q&A session and/or technologically-friendly applications (accessible via cell phones, tablets, etc.).

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Supplemental Episode Groups impacting future Part B payment policy. AOTA looks forward to a continuing dialogue with CMS on coverage and payment policies that affect the ability of occupational therapy practitioners to provide quality, cost effective outpatient therapy to Medicare beneficiaries.

