
On behalf of The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center (MD Anderson), I am pleased to submit comments in response to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services' (CMS) request for input on the development and refinement of evidence-based cost measures that are part of the Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) for eligible professionals. Founded in 1941 and located in Houston, Texas, MD Anderson is one of the world's most respected centers devoted exclusively to cancer care, research, education, and prevention. The institution is one of the nation's original three comprehensive cancer centers designated by the National Cancer Act of 1971 and is one of 47 National Cancer Institute-designated comprehensive cancer centers today. Additionally, due to its exclusive focus on cancer care, research, and education, MD Anderson is one of the nation's eleven Medicare Prospective Payment System-Exempt Cancer Hospitals (PCH).

Since 1944, over 1,000,000 patients have turned to MD Anderson for cancer care in the form of targeted therapies, surgery, chemotherapy, radiation and proton therapy, immunotherapy, or combinations of these and other treatments. MD Anderson's mission is to eliminate cancer in Texas, the nation, and the world through exceptional programs that integrate patient care, research, and prevention and through education for undergraduate and graduate students, trainees, professionals, employees, and the public. Underlying MD Anderson's mission is a strong focus on delivering high-quality cancer care, via a workforce of over 1,600 clinicians that have dedicated their careers to the prevention, treatment, and elimination of cancer.

In this letter, we offer specific comments regarding the proposed episode-based cost measures as they relate to cancer. We believe that our comments will provide an important perspective to CMS and will assist the agency in finalizing appropriate cost measures for the MIPS program. We would be happy to provide additional background or input as needed.

Complexities within Cancer Costs



6 This commenter has submitted a separate attachment accompanying the comment. (Attachment file name: 38_b_Buchholz_Thomas_MDAndersonCancerCenter.xlsx)


MD Anderson appreciates CMS' request for public comment on several oncology specific "trigger" procedures in the proposed rule, and how oncology services might affect the inpatient acute and chronic conditions also included in the proposed rule. Analyzing cost for cancer related services is a complex endeavor because tumor-specific factors-site, histology, stage, and markers-and patient-level factors-demographics, comorbidities, psychosocial status, and performance status-influence resource utilization and, therefore, the costs of cancer care. The term "cancer" itself encompasses multiple diseases, with costs, outcomes, and risk factors varying significantly among patients. High costs of care are common among cancer patients, making oncology a logical target to develop benchmark costs for a variety of treatments. Cost measures adopted for oncology care should account for these dynamics, along with variation associated with receipt of novel cancer therapies, treatment in different care settings, utilization of different evidence-based treatment pathways, and patient preference. As research continues to develop new and better ways to cure cancer, these variations will continue to change and present more complications for CMS as it manages the overall cost of oncology services to the Medicare program.

The complexity of cancer care and its prevalence within the Medicare population necessitate a clinically and statistically valid method of cost measurement, as well as reporting requirements that are standardized, clear, and actionable for clinicians. Within cancer, episode-based cost measures should be developed to span the entire treatment cycle (prevention, intervention, and survivorship), while offering sufficient flexibility to account for variation within and across patient subgroups. Most importantly, these measures should support meaningful cost comparisons across providers.

Complexities with Claims-Based Episode Definition for Cancer Services

"Episodic" Illness Design - MD Anderson notes that CMS has focused the proposed episodes on acute hospitalizations that are short-term and chronic conditions that are long-term. However, cancer is more of an "episodic" illness, which may not last over 12 months like a chronic condition, but are not as short in duration as traditional acute care episodes. Cancer treatment is often characterized by diagnosis, acute treatment, and resolution or the progression to second-and third-line treatments and the potential development of additional cancers. Therefore, MD Anderson suggests that CMS create separate episode-based cost measures to best represent episodic treatments like cancer for comparison with " like" services. Finally, in building these episodic cost measures, MD Anderson suggests CMS review the National Cancer Care Network (NCCN) guidelines and build the episodes to match the manner in which cancer is treated. NCCN guidelines are freely available to the public and document the exact medical methodology for treating a patient. CMS must fully understand these complexities in order to design appropriate episodes for cancer care.

Multiple Procedure Code Services- Many cancer services have multiple CPT codes involved in the same treatment. Therefore, assigning a global oncology event to one code - as CMS has proposed -could generate unreliable comparisons. When a single- code strategy is used, typically this is done by taking the code with the highest RVU and making it the lead. For example, in common oncologic practice, a large percentage of services having oncoplastic reconstruction (e.g., mastectomy with immediate reconstruction) are assigned to the reconstruction because it



has the highest RVU. If a single CPT strategy is used, these cases would be ascribed to plastic surgery (rather than breast cancer surgery), creating erroneous attribution and multiple imbalances. Likewise, when a minor hepatectomy is provided at the same time as a major colon resection, the liver RVU dominates, with costs (and potential complications) of the colectomy ascribed to the liver service. Existing risk models (e.g., Hierarchical Condition Categories, or HCCs) were not designed to account for the complex, multi-team surgeries in oncology. Thus, we recommend that CMS create subgroups for any oncology procedures requiring subsequent reconstruction or multiple surgical teams to support meaningful comparisons.

Term of Global Periods- MD Anderson also has concerns about the global period that will be assigned around the oncologic procedures in the proposed measures, as the specific number of days before and after the procedure that are pulled into the global period are not designated for each procedure. In addition, there are different/clinically valid approaches to providing neoadjuvant services (services provided before a surgical procedure) to cancer patients, making national comparisons across providers complicated. MD Anderson highly recommends that these issues be investigated more thoroughly before any Medicare payments for oncology are tied to these criteria.

Regarding the global period, generally a 30-day pre-operative and 90-day post-operative period is the standard global period; the vast majority of charges within this 120-day window are relatable to surgery and is complications. However, this may be truncated if a subsequent oncologic therapy starts after surgery. For example, it is standard of care for many patients with non-metastatic breast or colon cancer to begin adjuvant chemotherapy within 120 days of diagnosis. Additionally, some providers are using "return to intended oncologic therapy (RIOT)" as a metric for cancer surgery quality. These providers strive to recover the patient as quickly as possible so they can move onto adjuvant systemic therapy, radiation therapy, and/or further surgery. When this occurs, the patient is, by definition, recovered from the index operation and the next modality assumes the cost/outcomes.

Use of Appropriate CPT Codes - MD Anderson's clinical review of the procedural codes in the proposed evidence-based cost measures showed several procedures that are clinically inappropriate as "trigger" events. For example, several parent" procedures were missing, while other services were included on the proposed list that would only be provided as an add-on service to those "parent" procedures. In Attachment A, we have noted some of these issues for CMS' review.

Attribution

In preparation for the MACRA requirement that new patient relationship categories and codes be reported as of January 1, 2018, MD Anderson reviewed the five proposed categories of relationships issued for public comment in January 2017. Unfortunately, these categories are still vague and do not give clear direction to providers regarding the appropriate provider relationships for complex cancer related services and comorbidities. We understand that a new list of patient relationship categories and codes will be made available by CMS in April 2017, but since the final information has not yet been released, MD Anderson is unable to provide meaningful feedback to CMS on how the codes should best be incorporated into its attribution model. We ask that CMS provide another comment period after it releases the latest patient


relationship codes in order for stakeholders to provide meaningful input on use and attribution of the codes.

In addition, the method for how providers will be assigned to the proposed measures is not clear in the proposed rule. Will all measures be mandatory? MD Anderson recommends that CMS provide a list of many cost-based measures to providers and allow them to select a subset of those measures for their cost score in MIPS. This will avoid risks that inappropriate measures could influence clinical treatment or add unnecessary reporting burden on providers.

Risk-Adjusting Episode Groups

In order to ensure actionable feedback to providers through the MIPS program, MD Anderson agrees that it is vital for CMS to risk adjust for factors that are outside a clinician's direct control but that still have a notable effect on the total cost the Medicare program incurs for that patient. It is critical to ensure that providers are not penalized when they treat particularly complex or unhealthy patients, like cancer patients. CMS's risk adjustment methodology must also account for differences in patient severity of illness, function, age, type and number of comorbidities and/or chronic conditions, etc. MD Anderson urges CMS to ensure that only "like" patients be compared. For example, cancer patients should only be compared to other cancer patients. These comparisons should be made after CMS creates sub-groups or specialty groups to facilitate comparisons within cancer types (e .g., comparing breast cancer patients only to other breast cancer patients). Due to the complexities of the different types of cancer, comparisons across different types of cancers are inappropriate. For instance, comparing lung cancer patients to breast cancer patients would be misleading.

We understand that CMS uses the Hierarchical Condition Categories (HCCs) risk-adjustment methodology to adjust episode-based costs for its Medicare Advantage population, but also believe that CMS should apply a different risk-adjustment methodology to cancer services that is concurrent , rather than retrospective. Risk scores based on retrospective patient information may be of little use in the case where a previously healthy patient is suddenly diagnosed with cancer. Concurrent risk-adjustment methodologies would allow for a true representation of the acuity of such patients and better track the rapid changes that may occur during their treatment. MD Anderson recommends that once Medicare receives a claim including a cancer diagnosis, the risk adjustment methodology should shift to a concurrent risk adjustment.

MD Anderson also recommends that CMS create subgroups for providers reimbursed under a different inpatient payment methodology than traditional Diagnosis Related Grouper (DRG) classification. While acute care hospitals are paid under Inpatient Prospective Payment System using DRGs specific to the type of service provided to the specific patient, specialty hospitals and critical access hospitals are paid on a per-diem that cannot reliably be compared to DRG reimbursement. For example- as a specialty hospital, MD Anderson is reimbursed on a per-diem representing the "average daily cost of all inpatient oncology services provided" at MD Anderson for a fiscal year. It is not reasonable to compare that per-diem reimbursement to the DRG reimbursement an acute care hospital may have received for a specific service, such as a Colonic Resection. Subgroups based on the inpatient reimbursement methodology of the hospital at which an inpatient service occurred would ensure that all cost comparisons are made with appropriately matching service types.


Alignment of Cost and Quality

We agree with CMS' comments regarding the complexity of aligning episode group costs with quality of care measures. Cost measurement-in the absence of quality measurement provides an incomplete view of resource utilization at best. At worst, it can lead to care rationing and suboptimal care. Care that is truly value-driven and patient-centered prioritizes optimal outcomes and patient experience, along with patient safety, treatment efficacy, timely delivery, and efficient resource use. Measurement of meaningful outcomes and patient experience is needed to contextualize cost comparisons. The known challenges of aligning cost and quality measures are amplified in conditions, such as cancer, that are heterogeneous by nature. Cancer presents as both an acute and chronic condition, with significant variation between patients. Existing cancer quality measures are largely process-focused and are limited to high-prevalence cancers (e.g., breast and colon cancer). These measures often lack the flexibility to account for novel, life-prolonging therapies and less toxic treatment approaches (e .g., treatment on protocol, neoadjuvant treatment, and hypofractionated radiation therapy schemes).

To measure the value of healthcare, cost measures are best viewed within the context of outcomes that are meaningful to patients, caregivers, payers, and providers. However, many cancer outcomes (i.e., disease-free and progression-free survival, cancer recurrence, functional status, and quality of life) are not measurable via claims data. Likewise, many patient risk factors (e.g., psychosocial support, treatment preferences, health literacy, and frailty) and clinical factors (e.g., tumor resectability, treatment intent, and poor response to previous treatment) are not captured within claims. The most meaningful outcomes are often longitudinal in nature-measured in years, rather than weeks or months. The asynchronous relationship between these outcomes and the costs to achieve those outcomes yields misaligned comparisons at specific points in time. Cancer outcomes (and appropriate performance targets) can vary significantly, depending on tumor stage and histology, availability of effective treatments, and patient factors (including age, baseline performance status, and treatment preferences). In particular, functional status outcomes differ across cancer sites (for example, sexual and urinary function are appropriate for prostate cancer, whereas cosmetic satisfaction and arm mobility are appropriate for breast cancer). Finally, because oncology care is delivered by treatment teams-and patients frequently move between care settings appropriate attribution for both the outcomes and costs of cancer care is problematic. Thus, significant work is needed to develop and validate attribution models in cancer.

Together, these measurement challenges suggest that multi-stakeholder collaboration (including patient representatives) and a well-defined framework are needed to align and risk-adjust cost and quality measurement within cancer. Such an approach, while time- and resource-intensive, will do much to promote accurate, equitable, and meaningful performance comparisons within the MIPS program.

Collection of Cancer Stage and Patient Complexity Information

CMS requested public comment regarding how cancer staging can be tracked through data available on Medicare claims or other sources. MD Anderson supports this goal and thinks it would be a meaningful way to track the acuity of a specific cancer patient's treatment in relation to the costs of the treatments they actually receive. Clinicians determine cancer staging making a


medical determination based upon a several sources of information, including examination of the patient; pathology and other diagnostic tests; medical and radiation oncology treatments; and definitive surgery. It is possible to report cancer stages on inpatient and outpatient institutional claims, as well as on professional claims, using a variety of methods.

MD Anderson is currently working with the Alliance for Dedicated Cancer Centers (ADCC) to vet some proposed approaches to demonstrating cancer stage through data available on a Medicare claim. We would be very interested in sharing this with CMS at a later date once the methodologies have been more fully investigated.

Implementation Timing

As outlined above, there are many critical details that have not been communicated by CMS about how the proposed evidence-based cost measures will be applied to cancer services. As a result, MD Anderson recommends that CMS remove all cancer-related "trigger" procedures that are shown in the proposed rule and suggests that the cost category not be factored into the final MIPS score until payment year 2022 (performance year 2020) for specialty hospitals for cancer. In the interim, we encourage CMS to weight the cost category at zero percent (0%) of the MIPS final score for cancer related procedures until appropriate data is available to ensure proper comparison of oncology services across providers.

In summary, we appreciate the opportunity to provide input on the proposed evidence-based cost measures and CMS' thoughtful consideration of public comments on the measures proposed for the MIPS program. We believe that our comments offer a useful perspective for CMS regarding the complexities of creating appropriate comparison measures for oncology services and would be glad to discuss them with you directly.

