
On behalf of VisionCare, Inc., we appreciate the opportunity to comment on CMS proposals regarding development of episode-based cost measures for the Quality Payment Program (QPP). VisionCare is the manufacturer of the Implantable Miniature Telescope (IMT), an implantable medical device that has been demonstrated to improve vision and quality of life in individuals with end-stage age-related macular degeneration (AMD). It is not a treatment for cataracts. Furthermore, there are not quality measures related to use of the IMT for treatment of AMD and quality measures for treatment of cataracts are not relevant to treatment of AMD.

We urge CMS to adopt recommendations from stakeholders regarding alignment of episode groups and quality of care measures. In particular, we recommend that CMS ensure that the Lens and Cataract Procedure episode group is not more broadly defined than the quality measures related to that episode. Specifically, CMS should exclude CPT code 0308T Insertion of ocular telescope prosthesis including removal of crystalline lens or intraocular lens prosthesis as a trigger code for the Lens and Cataract Procedure episode group because it describes insertion of the IMT and is not a cataract procedure. The costs and post-operative care for this procedure are



entirely different from those of cataract procedures. As importantly, 0308T is not included in the codes used to measure the quality of care for cataract patients; therefore, it should not trigger an episode related to cataract care or be included in the cost of caring for cataract patients.

It is critical that the episode groups developed by CMS appropriately capture resource use by physicians treating similar patients so that comparisons of cost and quality are reliable. We understand that CMS suggested that the development procedure described in the posting is proposed to only apply to the development of future episode groups which means it would not apply to the development of the Lens and Cataract Procedure episode group. We strongly disagree with this approach. Cost measures and episode groups already included in the QPP, such as the Cataract and Lens Procedure Group, should be evaluated against these proposed development standards and be refined as needed to be consistent with stakeholder feedback. All episode groups should be developed against the same standards or else CMS risks introducing significant bias into the evaluation, measurement and comparison of different physicians in the cost and quality domains of MIPS.

One of the key aspects for measure development identified in the posting is that in developing cost measures, it is essential for episode groups to align with quality measures. VisionCare urges CMS and its contractor, Acumen, to ensure that this standard applies to both current and future cost measures. The purpose of holding physicians accountable for costs of care provided during a specific episode is to encourage physicians to limit spending by better coordinating care and avoiding provision of unneeded services. The services that are triggers for the episode group should therefore be aligned with the triggers for the quality measure so that the cost and quality measures capture information on the same patients for the same episodes. In the case of 0308T, there are no quality of care measures related to the IMT. Therefore, quality of care for patients receiving the IMT cannot be measured.

Without simultaneously measuring the quality of care provided during the episode - as will happen with 0308T because there are no measures related to use of the IMT to treat AMD - establishment of cost measures for an episode that include a procedure for which quality is not being measured can create an incentive to inappropriately limit the services provided during the episode to improve performance on the cost measure.

Therefore CMS should remove 0308T from the Cataract and Lens Procedure Episode Group. This code is not included in any of the six quality measures related to cataract care that CMS included in the quality performance category. The IMT is a highly sophisticated implantable device that projects images in the patients field of view onto healthy areas of the central retina outside of the degenerated macula. It is significantly different in function and cost from an intraocular lens used in a cataract procedure. The resources needed to provide this service, which is the only treatment option available to patients with end-stage AMD, should not be included in an episode group related to cataract procedures. Including 0308T in the Cataract and Lens Procedure Episode Group would present an inaccurate and distorted picture of the relative resource use of physicians providing this service.

Therefore, we urge CMS to remove 0308T as a trigger code for the Cataract and Lens Procedure Group in to order to appropriately align the cost measure with the cataract quality measures.



