
The American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (ASBMT) is an international professional membership association of more than 2,200 physicians, scientists and other healthcare professionals promoting blood and marrow transplantation and cellular therapy research, education, scholarly publication and clinical standards. ASBMT is dedicated to improving the application and success of blood and marrow transplantation, which ensuring access to all patients who need hematopoietic cell transplants.

ASBMT appreciates the opportunity to comment on Episode-Based Cost Measure Development as part of the Quality Payment Program. We commend the efforts by CMS to make the methodology of this important new policy transparent to all parties.

ASBMT members have decades of experience in providing intensive, high-resource utilization care to individuals with very high risk hematologic malignancies, as well as understanding the



costs of this care. Blood and marrow transplantation (also known as Hematopoietic Cell Transplant  HCT) is usually paid for within case rates or other payments that shift financial risk to the provider. In November 2016, ASBMT providers were given separate specialty designation by CMS to distinguish our clinicians from hematology and oncology because our practices were very different in resource consumption. This long-term experience in understanding costs of care creates the lens through which we evaluate potential reimbursement models, including CMS proposal on Episode-Based Cost Measures.

Concerns with Episode-Based Cost Measure Methodology

We have three general concerns, as well as several concerns specific to the cost measure categories currently proposed.

1. Episode Groupers: We are concerned where episode groupers are kept broad and are not acuity risk-adjusted. It is rare that one individual provider will see a volume of cases sufficient enough to establish a bell-shaped curve to be used for fair comparisons. Any consumption and outcomes measures should not be used. While it would be ideal that episode groupers also link to outcomes measures, we worry that such linkage for every grouper will promote processes and episode grouper selection that increase risk of being very selective in ones patient population.

Episode triggers, and the appropriate codes to reflect them, will be important. For chronic and acute diseases, the ideal trigger is a clear diagnosis established pathologically or radiologically. For pathological-confirmed diagnoses, the trigger date cannot be the date when pathological samples were obtained but rather must be the date when results are available to confirm the diagnosis, and as such, that clinicians are comfortable engaging in clinical interventions. We also recognize that certain diagnoses are clinical diagnoses; these will be problematic to set up a trigger mechanism and will rely on a relevant clinical note stating sufficient grounds for moving forward with a diagnosis-based treatment plan.

2. Adjustment for Clinical Acuity and Patient Socio-Economic Status: The development and implementation of episode groupers will be important in preventing decreased access to care for those beneficiaries with advanced disease, patients with complex psychosocial situations, and patients with multiple comorbidities, especially those in which treatment for one disease adversely affects outcomes for other diseases.

Providers need to be encouraged to document diagnoses coding in detail, particularly while in the learning phase of a new compensation system. Proper documentation and coding of these details takes time and will likely be without additional compensation. All factors affecting outcomes must be documented both in physician notes and in problem lists that are then translated into claims data. Many things that in the past have not been in progress notes, problem lists and claims data must be recorded for risk adjustment, such as family concerns, lack of transportation and other significant SES indicators. At the recent PTAC meeting, Dr. Gajewski, an ASBMT member physician, noted that for proper acuity adjustment in the COPD alternative payment model, acute exacerbation and chronic disease need to be listed in both the physician notes and the problem list, yet this would not be common physician practice.

Providers often do not document or code noncompliance with therapy or factors leading to noncompliance, like family dynamic problems, marital stress, mental health issues especially



those with personality disorders, cognitive decline, early signs or suggestion of dementia, inability to afford medications, opioid abuse even in those patients with clear sources of pain, and/or inability to get to therapy due to distances or mobility issues. For risk adjustment to be effectively done, these factors need to be coded and be part of the episode risk adjusters, yet they can jeopardize the physician/patient relationship when they appear in the patients electronic medical record. There may need to be restricted sections of patient chart for providers to document such healthcare problems; if we do not address this, patients with these added afflictions may not find providers willing to care for them and the result will be limited access to care. Providers caring for the sickest most complicated patients are already documenting with the highest level of inpatient and outpatient evaluation and management codes; they need to be compensated for the additional time for doing the additional documentation time for comprehensive coding. There may need to be modification of the prolonged service non-face-to-face CPT codes (99358 and 99359) to accommodate this need.

3. Attribution: Our providers utilize team-based care and a patient may have 2-3 different inpatient attending physicians during his or her month-long transplantation hospital stay. Attributing a clinician for purposes of these efforts will be problematic due to the structures of providing intensive care over a prolonged period of time. This may be easier to deal with for surgical and radiological proceduralists, but for our member physicians, attribution of costs of care will be difficult based. Acuity and resource consumption are determined by where the patient is in the clinical course of disease, so assignment of a provider other than by team is meaningless. MACRA legislation encourages practices to have a team of physicians and advance practice professionals. The advance practice professionals will sometimes see a patient independently, but while seeking advice of a physician and using a split/shared visit. Current databases also do not segregate advanced practice professionals by specialty; those treating complex patients in a team based environment may be severely disadvantaged. Team based reporting measures must be included. The common tax ID may work, but warrants a trial period.

Concerns on Specific Grouper Proposals

None of the diseases identified for the first rounds of measures are the principle focus of ASBMT physicians, but our physicians often provide on-going care for the entire patient for 1 to 2 years post -HCT. Thus, the proposed measures do occur during the times our providers are responsible for care.

Acute Care Episodes:

 Acute Myocardial Infarction: The presence or absence of heart failure determines resource consumption and length of stay. The location of myocardial infarction determines both resource consumption and length of stay, with an inferior wall MI requiring less monitoring than an anterior wall MI. Patients on coronary angiography having left main disease or severe triple vessel disease will likely have an emergency CABG surgery.

Bronchitis and Asthma: Patients with CO2 retention and on chronic steroids will not do as well as others, so there needs to be acuity adjustment. Specialists are likely to see more advanced disease. Pediatric patients with poor home situations are also likely to have more prolonged course.



 COPD: Patients with carbon dioxide retention, on chronic steroids, and/or on continuous oxygen will do worse so there needs to be acuity adjustment. Patients with FEV1 less than 1 liter will also do worse than relatively uncomplicated patients. Specialists are likely to see more advanced disease.

 Diabetes: This needs to be risk adjusted for patients with Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes, diabetes secondary to steroid usage, and brittle diabetics. Patient with diabetic complications like renal disease, vascular disease, neuropathy will do worse. Patients with long term diabetes and cerebral vascular disease will likely have cognitive impairment that will create compliance issues. Patients with a noncompliant with diet will have longer stays.

 Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage: Site of gastrointestinal hemorrhage, presence of thrombocytopenia or other coagulopathy will determine outcomes and resource consumption.

 Renal Failure: Stage of renal failure, underlying etiology and need for dialysis as well presence of heart failure will drive resource consumption.

Chronic Care Episodes:

 Asthma/COPD: These two entities should be separated. Asthma is often a younger population than the COPD population. Asthma is often triggered and exacerbated by environmental allergens. COPD typically occurs in older patients and often secondary to smoking. Older patients with a history of smoking may have ischemic heart disease or vascular disease, both peripheral and cerebral, complicating care. Some of the medications for heart disease, such as beta blockers, will worsen COPD.

 CAD: Coronary artery disease has different resource consumption based on severity of disease or vessel involvement, proximal vs. diffuse distal disease, presence of heart failure, and presence of diabetes. The latter patients often do not have chest pain or angina as warning of impending decompensation. CAD must have acuity adjustment

 Lupus: Lupus is a clinical diagnosis without a defined pathologic biopsy or radiologic diagnostic criteria. It is very hard to diagnose so identifying the correct way to trigger an episode will be problematic. This disease has heterogeneity of complications and morbidity, with those having CNS lupus or severe joint disease having more resource consumption and often requiring different monoclonal antibody or immune modification therapy.

Procedural Grouper Proposals:

 Melanoma Destruction/Excision: Proper therapy of a new melanoma or recurrent melanoma lesion is always excision and never destruction. Destruction would make staging of melanoma and confirmation of total removal impossible. Destruction of melanoma must be taken out of episode grouper definition. Patients presenting with metastatic melanoma have different procedure and resource consumption than those with simple skin lesion.

 Prostate Cancer Treatment: There are many patient specific factors governing therapy options for prostate therapy including patient choice and local availability of some therapy. Local disease stage, Gleason score, presence of metastases and comorbidities play a role in determining therapy and treatment. Different providers will advise and complete varying types of therapy,



with urologists performing surgery, radiation oncologists providing radiation therapy and medical oncologists treating mostly metastatic disease.

 Simple and Modified Radical Mastectomy: Simple mastectomies are often done for prophylaxis or where there is only Stage 1 disease, whereas modified radical mastectomies are done where local disease is more extensive. Complications and post-operative pain, and corresponding treatment, are different for both procedures.

