
The American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) solicitation for public comment to the December 2016 publication, Episode-Based Cost Measure Development for the Quality Payment Program.

Founded in 1932, ACG is a physician organization that currently represents 14,000 clinical gastroenterologists and other gastrointestinal specialists. We focus on the issues confronting the gastrointestinal specialist in delivering high quality patient care. Our members practice in a range of settings, and are faced with an increasing array of federal, state, and nongovernmental complexity to navigate. The primary activities of the ACG have been, and continue to be, promoting evidence-based medicine and optimizing the quality of patient care.

MIPS: Resource Use Performance Category

The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA), enacted on April 16, 2015, repealed the Medicare sustainable growth rate (SGR) formula and created a new


reimbursement system, the Quality Payment Program (QPP), beginning for the 2017 reporting year. The QPP has two components: the Merit-based Improvement Payment System (MIPS) and Advanced Alternative Payment Models (APMs). MACRA also requires the development of care episode and patient condition groups, and classification codes for the patient condition groups. MACRA requires the care episode and patient condition groups to account for a target of an estimated one-half of expenditures under Parts A and B (with this target increasing over time as appropriate). While MACRA passed with significant bipartisan support, the law must be improved.

In comments to the proposed rule, the College urged CMS to make changes to the Resource Use component, including: delaying the episode of care measures until there is a 2 year temporary trial and review period; and excluding Medicare Part D drug costs for attribution (as ACG Members have little to no control over drug costs).

While CMS reweighted Resource Use to 0% for the 2017 transition year, in the final rule, CMS expressed its intention to move forward with this performance category in 2018 despite a reliability score of 0.4 for these measures. These measures have yet to be reviewed by the National Quality Forum (NQF) and are subject to change. While CMS urges stakeholders to go through the NQF process, it remains to be seen whether the NQF will endorse a measure with such a low reliability score and ACG questions whether it is appropriate to hold a clinician accountable and base payment on results that may inaccurately represent performance 60% of the time. Detailed information, such as attribution, construction, and risk adjustment is not readily available at this time.

The ACG believes CMS should delay implementing this category until this information is available and publicly vetted. Thus, we urge CMS to keep the Resource Use category weights at 0% to the extent which the Secretary of Health and Human Services has the authority to do so.

Episodes

ACG appreciates the opportunity to be part of the clinical workgroup vetting and reviewing the various episodes of care proposals in gastroenterology. We welcome the opportunity to work with CMS on these important issues.

This review and episode-selection process may be improved by starting with the procedural episodes of care already developed by CMS and in a providers quality and resource use report (QRUR). Currently, the clinical and technical workgroup panels find the current assignments and guidance to be lacking clear definition, with limited background data and rationale for the episodes proposed by CMS and its contractor. ACG recommends the clinical workgroup take one step at a time, starting with clinicians and CMS contractor dissecting and reviewing the details of each episode in the QRURs, instead of trying to develop new episodes for many services. These episodes would provide clearer direction and assignments for clinical workgroup members. One of the most important components of the development of these episode groups is meaningful feedback to the clinician on costs for which they are directly responsible.

In the final rule, and for the CY 2017 performance period, CMS finalized episode-based measures, which have been previously reported in the 2014 supplemental QRUR and met reliability thresholds (0.4). Colonoscopy and Biopsy is among this list of 10 finalized episode-


based measures.1 CMS further notes that the agency selected episodes from the 2014 QRUR because these measures have been included in 2 years of QRURs (2014 and 2015). According to CMS, this provides clinicians the opportunity for initial feedback before the MIPS performance period begins, although the feedback does not contain any scoring information, nor does it contain the updated attribution changes. This is a good place for the technical expert panel and clinical committee to begin, via reviewing QRURs for accuracy, providing feedback, and reviewing/discussing any updated attribution methodologies. This initiative will also help CMS simplify the QRUR report itself. While CMS believes the 0.4 reliability threshold is sufficient, a collaborative review may also improve the reliability threshold of the data and episodes. For example, CMS and a panel of gastrointestinal clinicians should review the trigger codes for this episode prior to delving into any new episode. A complete audit or review of the episode may also help to explain why there is a 0.4 reliability score. It is very important to ensure that already developed episodes of care are correct, instead of moving forward with new episodes and potentially using the same faulty logic or data.

Episode Groups for Gastroenterology

Acute groups: ACG believes the draft esophagitis, gastroenteritis, and miscellaneous digestive disorders is much too broad of a category to use as individual episodes in clinical practice. This group includes too many specific diagnoses for a meaningful assessment to be made, including identifying triggers, episode windows, and attributing providers, etc.

Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage: ACG also believes that this is too broad, and instead suggests separating this episodes out to Upper Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage and Lower Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage.

The rationale for these suggestions is this terminology is consistent with clinical guidelines, and notes that management and evaluation are distinctly different.

Chronic Condition Episode Groups: ACG believes there must be a thorough discussion and detailed plan on chronic care episode groups, as many Medicare beneficiaries have multiple comorbidities, and thus, would be assigned to multiple episodes of care among multiple clinicians. Accurately allocating costs to the correct provider is an important area for CMS and clinical workgroups to review and study.

Among the major concerns for ACG regarding accurate attribution of costs to providers is treating chronic conditions, including being involved in major aspects of care. MACRA requires that claims submitted for items and services furnished by a physician or applicable practitioner on or after January 1, 2018, as determined appropriate by the Secretary, include the applicable codes established for care episode groups, patient condition groups, and patient relationship categories, as well as the National Provider Identifier (NPI) of the ordering physician or applicable practitioner (if different from the billing physician or applicable practitioner). 2 These forthcoming patient relationship codes have the potential to help with cost attribution in both acute and chronic episodes of care, but require evaluation and testing prior to implementation. For example, resource use for treating chronic liver disease depends primarily on the individual ordering or managing the patients diagnosis. Recent payment models, however, emphasize the




value of a multi-specialty approach for best outcomes in these complicated patients. The trial period evaluation can be another major role for CMS and episodes of care clinical work groups.

Patient risk adjustment is of critical importance as well. Multiple comorbidities or medical noncompliance increases this potential risk of inadvertent consequences, as well as the likelihood of complicated or noncompliant patients being discharged from a practice or referred to another group due to financial reasons. Further, there are varying costs for patients at different stages of the same disease. This could apply to cirrhosis but also to Crohns disease (with or without fistulae, abscess, infection, etc.). ACG urges CMS to review and consider lessons learned from state initiatives on risk-adjustment and risk-stratification. For example, Ohio and Tennessee are both currently going through this process. This review and feedback is another crucial role for clinical expert panels.

ACG believes the chronic liver disease episode is too diverse to pull cost data to accurately compare clinicians due to the broad spectrum of diseases involved (ranging from simple fatty liver to decompensated, advanced cirrhosis). Instead, the ACG suggests CMS look at a cirrhosis episode.

ACG believes that the inflammatory bowel disease episode should be divided into ulcerative colitis and Crohns disease to account for any variances in costs.

Acute Inpatient Medical Condition Episode Groups: ACG appreciates the opportunity to raise the question of whether it would be appropriate to include outpatient events with acute, otherwise inpatient measures.

Site of Service: ACG believes that CMS should distinguish the place of service for a procedure in an acute episode group. Place of service has a significant impact on cost, specifically when comparing an ambulatory surgical center (ASC) and an outpatient hospital department. An independently owned ASC is generally less costly than a hospital owned ASC or hospital outpatient site of service. ASCs provide a safe, convenient and cost-effective environment for gastrointestinal procedures provided to Medicare beneficiaries. CMS recognizes this in the Medicare outpatient facility final rule:

First, other than certain preventive services where coinsurance and the Part B deductible is waived to comply with sections 1833(a) (1) and (b) of the Act, the ASC coinsurance rate for all procedures is 20 percent. This contrasts with procedures performed in HOPDs under the OPPS, where the beneficiary is responsible for copayments that range from 20 percent to 40 percent of the procedure payment (other than for certain preventive services) [for example screening colonoscopy with no polyp removal]. Second, in almost all cases, the ASC payment rates under the ASC payment system are lower than payment rates for the same procedures under the OPPS. Therefore, the beneficiary coinsurance amount under the ASC payment system will almost always be less than the OPPS copayment amount for the same services. 3 Cost Measure Development: CMS stated in both the proposed and final rule that lower costs represent better performance in the Resource Use category. However, one systematic review on the association between cost and quality found inconsistent results.4 In addition, evaluating costs in the absence of quality is not meaningful information and may lead to inappropriate interpretations on whether a clinician is providing the highest quality of care when based solely on cost data (there



is no connection to corresponding quality data for same services). Currently, there is no methodology within provider billing systems that allocates a specific component of spending toward a selected quality measure, so as not to penalize the provider for adherence to a quality parameter. Likewise, there is no mention of an adjustment of resource use towards certain required amounts of spending to account for the quality measures. In addition, many questions remain both on the construction of the individual episodes (e.g., which costs will be included in each episode, the risk adjustment methodology including both clinical and sociodemographic factors) and what judgments will be made based on quality and costs together, including how CMS will address those episode groups for which quality measures do not currently exist, how attribution methodologies will be aligned across cost and quality, and how cost and quality data will be displayed on the Physician Compare website.

In many cases, the goal should be more resource use when it is clinically appropriate. For example, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and many other organizations have labeled hepatitis C as a public health priority, especially in Medicare. Overall, approximately 3 million Americans are infected with hepatitis C, and up to 3 out of 4 do not know they are infected. The vast majority of those affected are baby boomers, or those born from 1945 through 5 6 Left untreated, hepatitis C can cause serious liver damage, including liver cancer. Screening and treatment are crucial to resolve this public health epidemic, but the drugs are expensive, and Medicare Part B and D costs are out of the physicians control. There must be recognition that higher costs and utilization may lead to better quality/performance. To address the costs of Medicare drugs (out of the providers control) ACG suggests an improved and more clinically relevant Clinical Practice Improvement Activity performance category. Providers could be allowed to attest to the use of a number of approved resources in drug prescribing compliance. This could include any of several antibiotic prescribing resources, as well as online resources available specifically for prescribing medicine within acceptable clinical guidelines. During the Resource Use technical expert panel, there was discussion on the use of online resources which may warrant further evaluation. The approval of such resources would hopefully encourage specialty societies to establish online resources on appropriate drug use for their members to use and reference. AS CMS considers incorporating Part D cost for these patients, we have grave concerns regarding the risk of inadvertent consequences to these patients. We do not want to see physicians refusing to treat these patients due to this factor. We further believe that by utilizing an online treatment resource, we would instead be working toward making sure that these patients are treated with the most appropriate drug(s) and for the appropriate and approved duration.

Another example is that, according to the American Cancer Society, screening 80% of eligible American screened for colorectal cancer by 2018 would prevent 277,000 new cases and 203,000 deaths from colon cancer by 2030.7 The New England Journal of Medicine findings suggest that colonoscopy with polypectomy results in 53% reduction in deaths from colorectal cancer, as well as a 90% reduction in incidence rates.8 More services, thus more resource use, should be encouraged for important preventive services such as colorectal cancer screening.

MACRA requires the development of patient relationship categories and codes that define and distinguish the relationship and responsibility of a physician or applicable practitioner with a patient at the time of furnishing an item or service. According to CMS, these categories shall


include different relationships between the clinician and the patient and reflect the various types of responsibility for and frequency of furnishing care. As noted above, ACG believes that these patient relationship codes should be implemented on a trial basis, providing the opportunity for clinical and expert workgroup panels to review the data with CMS prior to fully implementing the Resource Use performance category. This would result in more accurate assignment of costs of services and help resolve the issue of attribution, where one provider may order the services but providers performing those services (specialty care) are assigned the costs. For example, ACG members have been designated as a patients primary care physician when they self-refer for a screening colonoscopy. Trials and testing are needed to define and demonstrate the connections between providers, especially when there may be variations in coding among practices and when there are questions regarding the validity in the current measures reliability.

Episodes of Care and Correlation with Proposed Advanced Alternative Payment Models under MACRA

It is important to covey ACGs strong belief that there must be consistency among episode of care in MIPS (and Resource Use) when compared to advanced payment models (APMs) in similar services. Without consistency, there will be no ability to compare quality and costs between the two payment models and across programs. For example, the American College of Surgeons (ACS)-Brandeis Advanced Alternative Payment Model (APM) proposal is episode-based and built on an updated version of the Episode Grouper for Medicare (EGM) software currently used by CMS for measuring resource use. This proposal can potentially include GI procedures such as colonoscopy and EGD (upper endoscopy). In April 2017, the Physician-Focused Payment Model Technical Advisory Committee (PTAC) recommended that this model move forward on a limited scale basis. Since this model is based on episode groupers, there must be alignment between any episodes of care in MIPS and any episode-based APM.

Conclusion

The stated goals of the QPP include improving healthcare outcomes, promoting smarter spending, minimizing burden of participation, and providing fairness and transparency in operations. While we are certainly appreciative of this commitment, efforts to attain these goals can easily become mired in the focused design of any of these working components of MIPS. Therefore, not losing sight of this centrally targeted commitment is paramount to the success of this endeavor.

1 Colonoscopy and Biopsy: Episodes are triggered by the presence of a trigger CPT/HCPCS code on a claim when the code is the highest cost service for a patient on a given day. Medical condition episodes are triggered by IP stays with specified MS-DRGs.

2 https://www.cms.gov/medicare/quality-initiatives-patient-assessment-instruments/value-based-programs/macra-mips-and-apms/patient-relationship-categories-and-codes.pdf
3 Medicare Program: Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment and Ambulatory Surgical Center Payment Systems and Quality Reporting Programs; Organ Procurement Organization Reporting and Communication; Transplant Outcome Measures and Documentation Requirements; Electronic Health Record (EHR) Incentive Programs; Payment to Nonexcepted Off-Campus Provider-Based Department of a Hospital; Hospital Value-Based Purchasing (VBP) Program; Establishment of Payment Rates Under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule for Nonexcepted Items and Services Furnished by an Off-Campus Provider-Based Department of a Hospital. [CMS1656FC and IFC]. https://oascahps.org/OAS_CY2017FinalRule.pdf
4 Hussey PS, Wertheimer S, Mehrotra A. The association between health care quality and cost: a systematic review. Ann Intern Med. 2013;258:27-34. 1965.



5 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Vital Signs Report on Viral Hepatitis.
https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2013/p0507-hepc-testing.html
6 Jemal, Ahmedin. Recent Hepatitis C Virus Testing Patterns Among Baby Boomers. Journal of Prevneitve Medicine. March 2017. http://www.ajpmonline.org/article/S0749-3797(17)30092-2/abstract
7 National Colorectal Cancer Roundtable. http://nccrt.org/tools/80-percent-by-2018/
8 Sources: Zauber AG, Winawer SJ, OBrien MJ et al. Colonoscopic polypectomy and long-term prevention of colorectal-cancer deaths. N. Engl. J. Med. 366(8), 687696 (2012).

